# Instilling Robust Watermark into Diffusion Models of Speech Generation

### Generative Speech Watermarking

### Abstract
With the thriving development of generative models, speech generated by diffusion models is more challenging to distinguish from natural speech. Current research predominantly depends on passive measures, specifically deepfake detection, to tackle this issue. Regrettably, these passive measures inadvertently fuel the continued development of generative models. Additionally, the absence of proactive supervision may result in a heightened risk of misuse of non-supervised content. Thus, this paper, as a pioneer, proposes the Generative Speech Watermarking method (GSW), presenting a paradigm for proactively supervising the generated speech to regulate its source diffusion models. In this paradigm, the watermarked speech is directly generated from the latent variable, which implies watermark generation and speech synthesis are occurred synchronously through diffusion models. To isolate the generated watermark from the generated speech, a dedicated decoder is designed for watermark extraction procedure. The experimental results demonstrate the superiority of GSW in terms of unobtrusiveness across various capacities, outperforming the state-of-the-art method. Diversified post-processing are applied to penalize watermarked speech, assessing its robustness, while the recovering accuracy consistently remains around 90%. The generality of GSW is demonstrated by its compatibility with various diffusion models.

### The pipeline of the proposed **GSW**

### Speech Demo
##### Left indicates the **Generated Speech**, rigth represents the **Watermarked Speech**
<audio controls>
  <source src="speech/ljs_speech_demo1.wav"> 
</audio>

<audio controls>
  <source src="speech/ljs_stego_demo1.wav">
</audio>

<audio controls>
  <source src="speech/ljs_speech_demo2.wav">  
</audio>

<audio controls>
  <source src="speech/ljs_stego_demo2.wav">  
</audio>

<audio controls>
  <source src="speech/ljs_speech_demo3.wav"> 
</audio>

<audio controls>
  <source src="speech/ljs_stego_demo3.wav">
</audio>

<audio controls>
  <source src="speech/ljs_speech_demo4.wav">  
</audio>

<audio controls>
  <source src="speech/ljs_stego_demo4.wav">  
</audio>

<audio controls>
  <source src="speech/ljs_speech_demo5.wav">  
</audio>

<audio controls>
  <source src="speech/ljs_stego_demo5.wav">  
</audio>
